- #Array #[[Sliding Window]] #[[Prefix Sum]]
- Goal
	- We are given an array and a target number. We need to return the length of the minimum subarray whose sum is equal to or greater than the target. If no subarray is greater or equal to the target return 0
- Thinking Behind the Algorithm
	- We want to create a window which represents our subarray. Rather then literally creating a subarray to save memory we are going to use a start and end pointer to keep track of where our window is in the given array. We also want to keep a sum variable to keep track of our current window's sum and to limit calculations. We also want of course a min length variable which keeps track of the min length of the window that equals the target. Now that we have all of our variables ready lets traverse the array with out right pointer. At each index we want to add the value at the current index to our sum. We then want to shrink the window until it is less than the target. While Shrinking we want to check min length against the windows current length at set it to the smallest value. Decrease the window sum by the value at the left pointer and increment the left pointer. This once we finish this shrinking of the window we effectively found a local minimum during the last iteration of the loop which is why we compare it to our minimum. All that's left is to return the min_length if it has decreased during our two loop structure. If it hasn't that means that no subarray is greater or equal to the target in which case we return zero
- Implementation
	- [[Python Implementation]] #card
		- ```
		  class Solution:
		      def minSubArrayLen(self, target: int, nums: List[int]) -> int:
		          l = 0
		          min_length = float("inf")
		          summ = 0
		          for r in range(len(nums)):
		              summ += nums[r]
		              while summ >= target:
		                  min_length = min(min_length, r - l + 1)
		                  summ -= nums[l]
		                  l += 1
		          return min_length if min_length < float('inf') else 0
		  ```
	- [[C++ Implementation]] #card
		- ```
		  class Solution {
		  public:
		      int minSubArrayLen(int target, vector<int>& nums) {
		          int n = nums.size();
		          int l = 0;
		          int min_length = n + 1;
		          int summ = 0;
		          for(int r = 0; r < n; r++){
		              summ += nums[r];
		              while(summ >= target){
		                  min_length = min(min_length, r - l + 1);
		                  summ -= nums[l];
		                  l += 1;
		              }
		          }
		          return min_length < n + 1 ? min_length : 0;
		      }
		  };
		  ```
- Image to Remember
	- TODO Create image to remember minimum size subarray sum