- #Array #[[Two Pointer]] #[[Dynamic Programming]]
- Goal
	- Given an array of heights of walls determine the amount of water trapped in the ridges of the wall
- Thinking behind the Algorithm
	- Lets consider how we would calculate the water height at any given position. Any i is limited by the lower of the highest wall to either its left or its right. So what can we do with this, well we could create a max_left and max_right array which at any given i have the max wall height to its left and right respectively. The implementation is fine both has an O(N) space complexity which we can do better. Lets think about what we actually need. At each i we allocate memory for the higher of the two walls even though its only used to tell which of walls is the lower. But lets think about a two pointer version of our implementation. We can have a left and a right position and in combination we can have a variable to store the max height of to the left of the left and the right of the right. We can then compare these max_left and max_right and which ever is smaller we can calculate the water trapped in the left or right. This takes advantage of knowing that the larger wall of the two doesn't matter aside from know which is smaller.
- Implementation
	- ```
	  class Solution:
	      def trap(self, height: List[int]) -> int:
	          l, r = 0, len(height) - 1
	          max_l, max_r = height[l], height[r]
	          summ = 0
	          while l < r:
	              if max_l < max_r:
	                  l += 1
	                  max_l = max(max_l, height[l])
	                  summ += max_l - height[l]
	              else: 
	                  r -= 1
	                  max_r = max(max_r, height[r])
	                  summ += max_r - height[r]
	          return summ
	  ```
- Image to Remember
	- TODO create an image to remember trapping rain water